# term-project

### Project Idea
We want to make a project for the roleplaying game Dungeons and Dragons, with the intent to help both players and dungeon masters access information quickly during a session. The rules for D&D are very complex, and with hundreds of items, monsters, and spells to encounter, and each character is a unique mix of different races, classes, and backgrounds, each of which come with their own set of features unlocked at different levels. Most members of our group are longtime D&D players, and frequently find ourselves Googling various terms and rules during a session and opening tons of tabs in the process.

Our goal is to create a REPL-based system that allows players to look up information instantly without their fingertips ever leaving the keyboard. Frequently, we just want a snippet of information: does Heat Metal require concentration? What are all beasts below CR2 that my Druid can transform into? How much is a Bag of Holding? This project will first require building a database through data scraping the Player's Handbook and the D&D Wiki, and as we fill in the basic deliverables of looking up various attributes of the ruleset, we hope to add more complex helper mechanisms. One would be an automatic encounter generator based on the current party's composition and status, for DMs making things up on the fly. During an encounter, the DM could even adjust the health and status levels of these enemies on the fly, to avoid keeping another tab open with that information, which diverges focus away from narrating the campaign. Other modules we're considering include procedurally generating side-quests, simple NPCs, and dungeon maps.

With the tools learned in CS32, such as database querying and designing a flexible REPL, we want to combine this together with one of our favorite pasttime activities to create something we'll actually continue to use after the course is over. Other members of our parties have already expressed interest in beta-testing it, and if this project is successful, we hope to host it on a server for anyone in the world to use. (Of course, we hope to make the web-based version prettier and more user-friendly, perhaps with nodes that can stay around from past searches to visually help organize the workspace.)

### Team Strengths/Weaknesses
Two of our team members come from the 15/16 intro sequence, and the other two come from 17/18. Overall, we have a good balance of front-end/back-end/full-stack developers, and each of us are interested in different parts of this project. Andrew and Donnie have a great intuition for general code design, and are interested in implementing the algorithmic complexities of this project, drawing from their past experience in fields like machine learning. Julie and Giuse come from a more front-end perspective, and are interested in designing not just what the UI will look like, but how the user interacts with the commands to perform results in the least amount of keystrokes necessary. In addition, most of us have a lot of experience with D&D, and have a wealth of first-hand experience to draw from in regards to how we can best design this project towards our projected user base. However, none of us have extensive experience with Spark and building interactive web applications, so we're unsure of how to handle the Javascript vs Java backend balance once we start thinking about our front-end GUI.